```
TG: 005
Title: PIN less top-up for mySabay accounts
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-11-07
Updated: 2019-11-07
Version 1.0.0
```

PIN less top-up for mySabay accounts
====================================

This guide describes how to implement PIN less top-up for mySabay account. This is using the direct payment workflow where customers are entering their customer details with the payment provider and the payment provider will execute a payment to the merchant.

mySabay is a platform used by players to manage game accounts for games offered by Sabay Digital and its partners. Players can use the platform to top-up from their mySabay account to game accounts.

# Pre-requisite 

* Merchant agreement with Sabay Digital (including real time settlement agreement with SSN)
* Understanding of the Stellar Blockchain (basic principals) https://stellar.org
* understanding of making transactions on SSN (using SDK's provided by Stellar or 3rd parties)
* understanding of public key cryptography (for decrypting resolver response)

## More information

* https://github.com/sabay-digital/org.ssn.doc.public is a public library for all documents related to SSN published by Sabay
* https://api-reference.ssn.digital/ API reference for all API's developed by Sabay
* https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/get-started/index.html documentation from the SDF
* https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/ REST API documentation for Horizon, the API endpoint used by SSN to access the blockchain

## Tools to use for SSN 

* https://t.me/ssn_digital join the SSN telegram group, the group bot can seed your test account
* https://lab.testing.ssn.digital blockchain explorer for test network
* https://api.testing.ssn.digital Testing network Blockchain API endpoint (to be used in production)
* https://horizon.testing.ssn.digital Testing network Blockchain API endpoint (direct access, testing only will be merged to API)
* Testing Network Passphrase: ssn_testing_network


NOTE: The horizon endpoint is still in use in the testing network, until the API endpoint has implemented all REST API functions needed. Access in the production network will only be via https://api.ssn.digital. If you find a function in your SDK which does not work with api.ssn.digital but works with horizon.ssn.digital, please inform us.

## Libraries used

* stellar sdk, see section libraries on https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/
* NaCl https://nacl.cr.yp.to/

both libraries have implementations in all major programming languages. NaCl is used to implement the cryptography used between payment providers and merchants when exchanging payment details.

## Setup on the test network

1) create a key pair using the blockchain explorer
2) join SSN telegram group and open an account on the test network using the group bot
3) Accept trust for Sabay Digital's "mySabay user account top-up" account for the asset 

The setup of the KYC details and the creation of the toml file is not strictly needed to have a working transfer on the test network, but it can help us to verify your production setup readiness.

1) configure your account 
    * Account setting [TR001](../tr/tr001.md)
    * KYC settings [TR006](../tr/tr006.md)
2) set your accounts home_domain
3) upload your toml file and define the assets you want to offer (USD, KHR) [TR007](../tr/tr007.md)

The key pair used on the test network can also be used on the production network. The toml file in this case can be served from the final production setup.

The mySabay top-up account is ```GBNV4PMFUTPYRKVQZV7V47W46KGZLKK5GWVAEXYPS7QJVQWY4B6X43JS``` on the testing network and production network.

# Flow for direct top-up

Flow for a direct PIN less top-up to a mySabay account

1) request mySabay user ID from your customer
2) create the payment address by combining user ID with the service domain
3) query the service domain for the service providers resolver
4) query the payment address (PA) resolver for the payment details
5) ask the customer for the top-up amount and currency
6) build the transaction
7) submit the transaction on SSN
8) store transaction id as returned by SSN and show confirmation to user

## Step 1

Within the payment providers application (web or mobile or others) the user is prompted to enter his user account ID for his mySabay account. The following input is valid 

* 8 digits

## Step 2

Based on the agreement between payment provider and merchant (Sabay) the payment provider knows the federated domain for the service e.g. ```mysabay.com``` and the payment provider can construct a payment address for the service. *For testing, the testing.mysabay.com domain will be used*.

The payment address is ```user_input*merchant.domain```, e.g. ```23120189*testing.mysabay.com```

The payment address maybe constructed differently by each service provider, but it must always follow the same principal, left side of the (*) is the uniq identifier for the merchant, and the right side is the domain of the merchant.

## Step 3

When a merchant issues his own payment address, the merchant also must provide a payment address resolver. Details where the resolver is hosted are provided in the toml file hosted at a well know address with the service provider:

```
https://DOMAIN/.well-known/ssn.toml
```

where the DOMAIN corresponded to the right side of the payment address e.g. 

```
https://testing.mysabay.com/.well-known/ssn.toml
```

The merchant must define the a valid payment address resolver using the following attribute: 

```
FEDERATION_SERVER="https://pa.ssn.digital/v1/
```

The payment address resolver must implement the following API

* [SSN Payment Address Resolver](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20payment%20address%20resolver%20API)


## Step 4

The data exchange between the payment address resolver and the payment provider is encrypted to provider security for payment details. The encryption is based on ECC encryption using Curve25519 keys derived from the SSN EdDSA keys. The message is encrypted using x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305 and encoded in hex.

A complete description of the process is provided in [TG004](tg004.md) including examples for the encryption process. The return will not contain the payment amount or currency.

## Step 5

The payment address resolver response for a top-up payment to Sabay does not contain the amount or currency, the input must be request from the user.

In case the payment provider issues multiple currencies (USD, KHR) the payment provider must check for which asset (currency) the service provider has trust lines established. *Each asset issued on SSN needs a separate trustline and approval from the payment provider.*

The information should be stored with the payment provider. When the status is unclear it can be checked on the network or using the ```3rd party API``` on SSN and the /verify/trust/ endpoint.

```bash
curl -X POST "https://api.testing.ssn.digital/v1/verify/trust" \
    -H "accept: application/json" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"  \
    -d "account=GBNV4PMFUTPYRKVQZV7V47W46KGZLKK5GWVAEXYPS7QJVQWY4B6X43JS&asset_code=USD&asset_issuer=GBI7QWEE3STHTAPRFHDA2XXWCDP3ERY2ON5TL22G7EJ3LS24HRETOYBY"
```

```json
{
    "status":200,
    "title":"asset will be accepted by account"
}
```

Ask the user for the amount to top-up and select from approved currency for the top-up. Please note other services may dictate the currency to use in step 4.

## Step 6

The transaction should be build with the transaction builder API as documented in the ```3rd party API```

```bash
curl -X POST "https://api.testing.ssn.digital/v1/create/transaction" \
    -H "accept: application/json" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
    -d "from=GBIUFPAZAQDUI4U7E4476ARDWYCVAVUE7U7FRMRBQ72D6BRU6JYOVY43&to=GBIUFPAZAQDUI4U7E4476ARDWYCVAVUE7U7FRMRBQ72D6BRU6JYOVY43&amount=3&memo=23120189&memo_type=text&asset_code=USD&asset_issuer=GBIUFPAZAQDUI4U7E4476ARDWYCVAVUE7U7FRMRBQ72D6BRU6JYOVY43"
```

```json
{
    "status":200,
    "envelope_xdr":"AAAAACB+baVTd4GY.....Oa0XKT0izzArSDaCPtbAzc9FAw=="
}
```

The API will return a transaction envelop in the XDR format. The transaction needs to be loaded into the SDK and signed by a authorized key for the asset issuing account. By default the SDK provides a function for this.

## Step 7

Submitting the transaction to SSN, is a simple function to hand the signed transaction in the XDR format to SSN API endpoint 

```
https://api.testing.ssn.digital/transactions/ 
```

By default the SDK provides a function for this.

## Step 8

The API will return a json object with the transaction details (on success), the transaction can take up to 5 seconds to be included in the blockchain. Should the connection be closed without receiving the response, the service needs to query his account transactions and find the transaction id.

```json
{
  "_links": {
    "transaction": {
      "href": "https://horizon.ssn.digital/transactions/6d877ba0bb5d899e415c59bb9f90b83898b3ab2287cf93299cbb39fc09f28c95"
    }
  },
  "hash": "6d877ba0bb5d899e415c59bb9f90b83898b3ab2287cf93299cbb39fc09f28c95",
  "ledger": 1973255,
  "envelope_xdr": "AAAAAJVkSQrzv.....AAAAAAAAAAAAAFAAAAAAAAAAA=",
  "result_meta_xdr": "AAAAAQAAAAIAAAADAB4cBwAAA.....AMgAAAAAAAAAA"
}
```

The transaction hash should be stored with the payment providers records, and shown as prove of the success to the user on demand. The transaction ID is visible to the mysabay receiver and can be used by customer service to validate the transaction. Sabay also provides a public endpoint to validate the transaction using the transaction ID.

In case of an error while validating the transaction, the API returns instantly with an error:

```json
{
  "type": "https://stellar.org/horizon-errors/transaction_malformed",
  "title": "Transaction Malformed",
  "status": 400,
  "detail": "Horizon could not decode the transaction envelope in this request. A transaction should be an XDR TransactionEnvelope struct encoded using base64.  The envelope read from this request is echoed in the `extras.envelope_xdr` field of this response for your convenience.",
  "extras": {
    "envelope_xdr": "AAAAAJVkSQrzvgJpDRNjm1HY1KOL.....ya6upe3E+QPz1mXiQwRD4uxOIZqcSlc"
  }
}
```

An error always means the transaction as submitted is invalid and needs to be rebuild before submitting it again. Errors are documented in the [REST API documentation](https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/) as published by the SDF .