```
TG: 002
Title: Mobile top up over SSN
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-08-30
Updated: 2019-08-30
Version 1.0.0
```

Mobile top up over SSN
======================

Mobile TopUp is a service offered on SSN by Sabay Digital, top up is implemented for the following carriers 

* Cellcard (CAMGSM) Cambodia
* Smart Axiata Cambodia
* Metfone (Vietel) Cambodia
* SEATel Cambodia

The service is a prepaid service, users of the service are expected to purchase mobile top up tokens before using the service, the same token can be used across all carriers.

The service pays commission on top up's as published on the account settings for each carrier. The data field ```commission``` is used for this. The field denotes the percentage of the face value of the token to be returned to the user as commission payment. The commission rate can be queried from the payment address resolver.

# Purchasing Top Up Tokens

Top up tokens (MOBIL_USD) are sold by Sabay Digital on SSN in exchange for payment provider tokens as accepted by the mobile top up services. MOBIL_USD tokens are based on the USD currency in a 1 to 1 peg and will be issued net of payment provider token fees.

The asset is issued by:

```ini
asset_issuer: GD7TBHTQZ2R25PO7HRE4QDOV4JSMXAOOTSFI4DFMQAHZVXVR7VX6QMOX
asset_code: MOBIL_USD
```

The account is maintaining a open trade for all approved trustlines from payment providers and the account is configured to require authorization to hold the MOBIL_USD token.

When a user sends a payment provider tokens to the mobile top account, the service will lookup the net_payout defined on the token issuing account and deducted the amount from the total before issuing MOBIL_USD token back to the user.

# Sending mobile top up

In order to top up any number from participating carriers the user can construct and then resolve a payment address in the following format:

```
number*carrier.topup
```

For example to top up the number 012 976 165 with cellcard, the user can query the payment address resolver service with the following command:

`https://pa.ssn.digital/v1/`

```json
{
  "network_address": "GBIQFFUTLCWKBGFT2F6ZHBSFP6ONWS2TRM7BRXKILSZ5XEJPZXLINECS",
  "public_key": "GBIQFFUTLCWKBGFT2F6ZHBSFP6ONWS2TRM7BRXKILSZ5XEJPZXLINECS",
  "payment_address": "012976165*cellcard.topup"
}
```

Queries for payment address for mobile top up do not use encrypted responses so no encryption needs to be implemented to access the service. The response from the resolver will be:

```json
{
  "network_address": "GBM4YYLO6HKYSUMCLOI63RXCYFIACZLUBE6TK2VD656UDPC3BWT5X2EL",
  "public_key": "GBM4YYLO6HKYSUMCLOI63RXCYFIACZLUBE6TK2VD656UDPC3BWT5X2EL",
  "details": {
    "memo": "012976165",
    "commission": 4.5
    "payment": {
      "asset_code": "MOBIL_USD"
    }
  }
}
```

The response will not contain the amount, the wallet (or service) offering the top up must query this information from the user and use it to construct the transaction.

# Returns and Commission payments

Upon receiving a valid transaction the service will verify the prefix for the carrier and attempt to call the carriers API to initiate the top up.

If the top up succeeds the service will calculate the commission as published in the data field ```commission``` on the account settings and make a payment to the sender with the commission in MOBIL_USD, the memo field will contain the reference number as issued by the mobile carrier and the phone number.

If the top up fail's the service will refund the full amount to the sender with the memo containing the phone number and any error code returned by the carrier, e.g. number does not exist.