```
TG: 004
Title: Implementation of payment address resolver
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>, Owen Jacob <jacob.owen@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-09-05
Updated: 2020-03-04
Version 2.0.1
```

Implementation of a payment address resolver
============================================

This guide describes how a merchant should implement a payment address resolver. The resolver is used by payment providers to lookup the payment details associated with a payment address and process the payment in a way that the merchant is then able to determine what the payment was for. The API for the resolver is documented at [https://api-reference.ssn.digital](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20Payment%20Address%20Resolver%20APIv2#).

# Payment Addresses

Payment addresses and payment details are documented in detail in [TR002](/tr/tr002.md). In summary, a SSN payment address has the following format:

`payment_identifier*merchant.example`

The left side of the '\*' represents the payment identifier used by the merchant or service provider to describe a payment. This could be a invoice ID, a user ID, a service ID or any other identifer as chosen by the merchant. This may change from payment to payment. The right side of the '\*' identifies the merchant in the form of a domain name. The is fixed for every payment associated with that merchant.

# Resolver Requests

In order to protect the information which can be gained from the payment address lookup, the payment provider needs to provide a signature that the merchant can verify. As documented in the API the request must contain certain information as shown in the example below:

```json
{
    "hash": "431326289191edb3dc94f90e1e0e5d8899bf7ecb196c00cc3b9506dc7ed05eff",
    "signature": "2fa7689f88ebb464536418c32dfd4f36d3936ffcdad3d4b8c55531963bd1645dabdb431b7db6f56dd940e591e8f2a65c7776f3254e892c96a183179fb2fb8c0d",
    "signer": "GAYJ2HEGE4XGITUE2GQ7VA73ZT3V3Z4C47YLCEINTHTKTIEXACDNXJM3",
    "ssn_account": "GARXYJB3ZUJ7DNQTDWYE5PWO356ZOXD26NQJZPPM7CDAQP5YPWAWHD36"
}
```

Where:
* hash is a hex encoded sha256 hash of the complete URI with URL encoding (percent-encoding)
* signature is a hex encoded signature of the hash
* signer is the public key which signed the hash. This key should be a signer on the ssn_account
* ssn_account is the public key from which the payment is originating

*Note*: signer and ssn_account may be the same key depending on how the payment provider has setup their SSN account.

# Resolver Flow

The flow describes the business logic that the resolver should implement.

## Verify The Request

### Step 1 - Verify the payment address is for the resolver

Verify the part to the right of the '\*' matches the domain the resolver is working for. Verify the part to the left of the '\*' contains a valid payment identifier.

### Step 2 - Verify ssn_account is an existing trusted payment provider

The resolver should check the merchant's existing trustlines. It can do this by iterating over the balances array returned by https://api.ssn.digital/accounts/{merchant_pubkey} and comparing the public key in ssn_account with the asset_issuer public key of each balance. If it finds a match it should also check that is_authorised is true - this ensures the trustline has been authorised by both parties. For each match the resolver should store the asset_code in an array for later use.

### Step 3 - Verify signature is valid

The resolver can use the SSN API to verify the signature using the endpoint documented [here](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20API#/verify/post_verify_signature). A HTTP 200 response indicates the signature is valid.

### Step 4 - Verify signature is a signer on ssn_account

The resolver can use the SSN API to verify the signer is listed on the ssn_account using the endpoint documented [here](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20API#/verify/post_verify_signer). A HTTP 200 response indicates the signer is listed on the ssn_account.

## Build The Response

### Step 1 - Retrieve the payment identifier

This step will depend on the merchants internal systems. The resolver should get information related to the payment identifier (probably) from a database.

### Step 2 - Determine which currencies are accepted from ssn_account

Using the array of asset_code's retrieved earlier the resolver should calculate the payment amounts in each currency it has trustlines for or determine which asset_code's are accepted for the payment.

### Step 3 - Build the JSON response

The resolver will build a JSON response according to [TR002](/tr/tr002.md) paying special attention to the memo. This will ensure the payment provider correctly builds a transaction that can be reconciled.

## Error Handling

### Invalid requests

In the event of step 1 from the verifying request flow failing the resolver should return HTTP 400

### Unverifiable requests

In the event of steps 2-4 from the verifying request flow failing the resolver should return HTTP 403 response to indicate the requestor is not an authorized one.

# Source code examples

The source code examples are made available to help better understand the documented flow

* [Go](/examples/go/resolver.go)