```
TG: 007
Title: Notifying a Sabay product or service of a subscription
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>, Owen Jacob <jacob.owen@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-04-21
Updated: 2020-04-21
Version 1.0.0
```

Notifying a Sabay product or service of a subscription
======================================================

This guide describes how to notify a Sabay product or service of a subscription payment.

# Pre-requisite 

* TBC

## More information

* https://github.com/sabay-digital/org.ssn.doc.public public library for all documents related to SSN published by Sabay
* https://api-reference.ssn.digital/ API reference for all API's used by SSN

## Tools to use for SSN

* https://t.me/ssn_digital join the SSN telegram group, the group bot can seed your test account
* https://lab.ssn.digital blockchain lab from SDF
* https://explorer.ssn.digital blockchain explorer from Sabay
* https://api.testing.ssn.digital Testing network Blockchain API endpoint
* Testing Network Passphrase: ssn_testing_network

## Setup on the test network

1) create a key pair using the blockchain lab https://lab.ssn.digital/
2) join SSN telegram group and open an account using your public key and the group chat bot (/help)
3) request our team to apply for a trustline to your account
4) Accept trust for Sabay products

# Workflow

## Step 1 (Finding information to notify a product or service of the subscription)

Notifying a product or service on SSN of a subscription is based on using payment addresses. A payment address is a formated string ```[payment identifier]*[domain].[tld]```, similar to an email address but using the [*] as divider between the user part and the domain part. Payment addresses will be resolved by the product or service and return needed information about the subscription to be processed.

The resolver request should be prepared to the payment address resolver as documented [here](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20Payment%20Address%20Resolver%20APIv2#/resolver/post_resolve__payment_address_). The resolver response will provide the subscription payer with information to complete the notifying transaction.

***The resolver may not return any details, if the request is not signed and authenticated for a payer that has approved the product or service prior.***

## Step 2 (Ensure payment for the subscription has been completed)

**Before submitting the transaction to the network, the subscription payer needs to ensure the amount is deducted from the balance of the user and transfer it to an escrow account for assets issued on SSN.**

With the information from the resolved payment address use the endpoint documented [here](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20API#/transactions/post_create_transaction) to build a transaction for SSN. The resolver result maps to the API call as follows

| PA return | API call | value
| --- | --- | ---
|  | from | sender account (Your account on SSN)
| network_address | to | address of the product on SSN (Retrieved by resolving the payment address)
|  | amount | Amount paid (The subscription payment)
| memo | memo | Merchant defined memo (Retrieved by resolving the payment address - **not to be altered**)
|  | asset_code | USD or KHR (The subscription payment)
|  | asset_issuer | Asset issuing account (Your account on SSN)

## Step 3 (signing the transaction)

The response from the API in step 2 provides an unsigned transaction envelope that should be signed by an authorised key. Contact the technical team for sample code in the language of your choice.

## Step 4 (Submit the transaction)

The signed transaction should be submitted to the endpoint [here](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20API#/transactions/post_transactions). The response of the transaction endpoint will include the network ledger number and the network transaction hash provided the transaction was sucessfully accepted. The transaction may take up to 5 seconds to be included in the next ledger. Should the connection be closed without receiving a response, you can resubmit the transaction to verify the result without duplicating the notification.

The product or service will be provided based on the transaction hash which is publicily available for all parties to verify.