```
TR: 007
Title: Extended configuration for organizations on SSN
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-10-08
Updated: 2019-10-08
Version 1.0.0
```

Extended configuration for organizations on SSN
===============================================

## TOML configuration file

The ssn.toml file is used to provide a common place where the Internet can find information about your domain’s SSN integration. Any website can publish SSN network information. You can announce your validation key, your federation server, assets you issue, where to find API endpoints and contact information.

This configuration file must be hosted by all payment providers and the ```home_domain``` data field on the account must point to the domain which is hosting this file.

Merchants who operate their own payment address resolver must also have the home domain set on their account, and host a TOML configuration under the domain.

### Publishing ssn.toml

Given the domain “DOMAIN”, the ssn.toml will be searched for at the following location:

https://DOMAIN/.well-known/ssn.toml

This file is UTF-8 with Dos-, UNIX-, or Mac-style end of lines. Blank lines and lines beginning with ‘#’ are ignored. Undefined sections are reserved.

The ssn.toml file is a text file in the [TOML](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) format.

### Enabling cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)

You must enable CORS on the ssn.toml so people can access this file from other sites. The following HTTP header must be set for a HTTP response for ssn.toml file request.

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

***Important:*** Only enable CORS for ssn.toml (or any files it references). For example, in Apache you would set something like:

```
<Location "/.well-known/ssn.toml">
    Header set Access-Control-Allow-Origin "*"
</Location>
```

for nginx

```
location /.well-known/ssn.toml {
 add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' '*';
}
```

### Testing CORS

Run a curl command in your terminal similar to the following (replace ssn.digital with the hosting location of your ssn.toml file):

```
curl --head https://ssn.digital/.well-known/ssn.toml
```

Verify the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header is present as shown below.

```
curl --head https://ssn.digital/.well-known/ssn.toml

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-length: 482
...
```

Also run the command on a page that should not have it and verify the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header is missing.


## ssn.toml 

### Payment address resolver

If you participating on SSN as merchant and you issue your own payment address (id*domain.example) you need to ensure that payment providers can resolve the payment address.

In the SSN TOML file you need to specify where to find the resolver for your domain using the setting ```FEDERATION_SERVER``` at this endpoint payment providers will expect to find a API which has implemented the [SSN Payment Address resolver API](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20payment%20address%20resolver%20API)

```toml
# ssn.toml example
#
#   The endpoint which clients should query to resolve payment addresses
#   for users on your domain.
#
FEDERATION_SERVER="https://pa.ssn.digital/"
```

### Currency Documentation

Payment Provider shall use the TOML file to document the currencies they issue and publish the API endpoint where the cashier is implemented [SSN Cashier public API](https://api-reference.ssn.digital/?urls.primaryName=SSN%20Cashier%20API).

The payment portal cashier.ssn.digital will periodically scan this file to update the list of cashiers available on SSN.

These fields go in the `ssn.toml` `[[CURRENCIES]]` list, one set of fields for each currency issued. Complete all applicable fields, and exclude any that don't apply.

Field | Requirements | Description
------|--------------|------------
code | string (<= 12 char) | Token code
issuer | `G...` string | Token issuer SSN public key
api | URL | API to connect to the cashier for this asset
status | string | Status of token. One of `live`, `dead`, `test`, or `private`. Allows issuer to mark whether token is dead/for testing/for private use or is live and should be listed in live exchanges.
display_decimals | int (0 to 7) | Preference for number of decimals to show when a client displays currency balance
name | string (<= 20 char) | A short name for the token
desc | string | Description of token and what it represents
conditions | string | Conditions on token
image | url | URL to a PNG image on a transparent background representing token
fixed_number | int | Fixed number of tokens, if the number of tokens issued will never change
max_number | int | Max number of tokens, if there will never be more than `max_number` tokens
is_unlimited | boolean | The number of tokens is dilutable at the issuer's discretion
is_asset_anchored | boolean | `true` if token can be redeemed for underlying asset, otherwise `false`
anchor_asset_type | string | Type of asset anchored. Can be `fiat`, `crypto`, `stock`, `bond`, `commodity`, `realestate`, or `other`.
anchor_asset | string | If anchored token, code / symbol for asset that token is anchored to. E.g. USD, BTC, SBUX, Address of real-estate investment property.


Note: `fixed_number`, `max_number`, and `is_unlimited` are mutually exclusive issuance policies. Include exactly one of those fields.


```toml
[[CURRENCIES]]
code="USD"
issuer="GD5T6IPRNCKFOHQWT264YPKOZAWUMMZOLZBJ6BNQMUGPWGRLBK3U7ZNP"
status="live"
display_decimals=2
is_unlimited=true
is_asset_anchored=true
anchor_asset_type=fiat
anchor_asset=USD
name="Sabay Cashier for USD"
api="https://cashier.sabay.com"
image="https://cashier.sabay.com/image/logo.jpg"

[[CURRENCIES]]
code="KHR"
issuer="GD5T6IPRNCKFOHQWT264YPKOZAWUMMZOLZBJ6BNQMUGPWGRLBK3U7ZNP"
display_decimals=0
name="Sabay Cashier for KHR"
is_unlimited=true
is_asset_anchored=true
anchor_asset_type=fiat
anchor_asset=KHR
api="https://cashier.sabay.com"
image="https://cashier.sabay.com/image/logo.jpg"
```


### Point of Contact Documentation (optional)

These fields go in the `ssn.toml` `[[PRINCIPALS]]` list. It contains identifying information for the primary point of contact or principal(s) of the organization.

Field | Requirements | Description
------|--------------|------------
name | string | Full legal name
email | string | Business email address for the principal
telegram | string | Personal Telegram account

```toml
[[PRINCIPALS]]
name="Jane Jedidiah Johnson"
email="jane@domain.com"
telegram="crypto_jane"
```

