```
TR: 001
Title: Account security settings
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-08-08
Updated: 2020-06-15
Version 1.1.0
```

Account security settings
==========================

This document refers to the configuration of accounts used on SSN by:

* Merchants, 
* Service Providers or 
* Payment Providers

and it describes the setup and security considerations for those account.

***It is important to notice SSN can not recover any accounts, or recover secret keys. The security of an account is 100% with the account owner.***

# Accounts

SSN uses public key cryptography to verify and authorizes operations which change the state of the network. Public keys are used as accounts; and as signers on accounts. 

Keys can be created with any public tool which supports the creation of EdDSA keys compliant with the SDF digital signature schema. You can use [SSN Lab](https://lab.ssn.digital/#account-creator?network=testing) to create key pairs.

Example of a public / secret key pair as used on SSN:

```
public key: GAP2OYP3E5NYSY5NCUFLSCKIWFDFVSJU5SS4PZ5K7W7XAVU4MOHKLOMA
secret key: SCHAGYIU6RO272GBI3OUYFRGHALIKVFYLWWQOLNBMDZXJDDSZJAIPVD3
```

Accounts are identified by a public key. The secret key that corresponds to this public key is called the master key. The master key can by default sign for any operation of the account. 

**In practice it is not advisable to use the master key for signing of transactions.**

# Account Security

SSN is designed to provide payment operations programmatically, executed by a computer program. In order to sign the transaction, authorizing a operation, a signing key must be know to the program. If the master key is lost or stolen the account becomes in-operably since it can no longer be assure the operation was signed by the owner or by a 3rd party in possession of the key.

We therefor enforce a strict policy that the master key of an account must be disabled and at least 2 additional signing keys must be added to the account. 

1) a security key with permissions to to change signer keys on the account
2) a operations key to sign transactions programmatically without permissions to to change signer keys on the account

## Thresholds (weight of operations) concept

SSN has a build in permission system for account operations, each operation is categorized into one of the following groups:

| Threshold group | function
| --- | --- |
| low | approve trustlines for assets
| medium | sign transactions and issue assets
| high | change signature keys and change thresholds

A weight can be assigned to each of those threshold groups. By default all thresholds groups are set to 0, and the master key is set to weight 1. This means the master key can sign for all type of operations on the account.

For a production account we recommend the following setup:

| Threshold group | weight
| --- | --- 
| low | 10
| medium | 50
| high | 200

The threshold operation allows you to set the weights for the account. The threshold for a given group can be set to any number from 0-255. 

**Do not assign thresholds unless you added signers**

## Signers

The ```Set Options``` operation allows you to change the weight of the master key and to add other signing keys with different weights to an account. Each signer which is added will also be assigned a weight. The weight assigned in the threshold for a operation is the amount of signature weight required to authorize an operation at that level.

**In order to submit a valid operation the combined weight of all keys which signed the transaction must be greater or equal then the threshold limit of the operation.**

Additional keys can be assigned to an account with different key weights to give permission to perform a given operation. Threshold weights and key weights can be setup in combination to require more then 1 key to sign the operation. 

We recommend to use different keys to ensure security of the account. Please note you can only add a maximum of 20 keys to an account.

* **security keys** used for high threshold operations
* **transaction keys** used for signing transactions 
* **trustline keys** for low threshold operations 
* **api keys** used for network request signing only 
* **master keys** not used on the network (disabled)

Keys are assigned to employees or programs, keys should not be past on when employees are leaving the organization. New keys should be create and account signing authority should be transferred by changing the keys on the account.

## Recommended Account settings

We recommend to configure an account with the following settings and keys:

* 3x security keys, whereby 2 keys are required to execute high threshold operations such as changing the signers on the account, each key should be held by a different person in the organization (recommended weight 100, minimum 3 keys)
* 2x transaction signing key used for daily operation, both keys need to sign for a transaction to be valid (recommended weight 25, minimum 2 keys, maximum 6 keys)
* 1x API key (recommended weight 1, recommended 1 key only)
* 1x master key, **disabled**

and the following threshold settings:

| Threshold group | weight
| --- | --- 
| low | 10
| medium | 50
| high | 200

# Additional security considerations

Keys used programmatically should be regularly rotated in production following a predefined schedule, used keys should be retired. For example:

* month 1 of operation
  * transaction signer keys 1 and 2 are in use
  * transaction signer keys 3 and 4 are added (manual signing operation by security key holder)

* month 2 of operation
  * transaction signer keys 3 and 4 are in use
  * transaction signer keys 1 and 2 are removed (manual signing operation by security key holder)
  * transaction signer keys 5 and 6 are added (manual signing operation by security key holder)

* month 3 of operation
  * transaction signer keys 5 and 6 are in use
  * transaction signer keys 3 and 4 are removed (manual signing operation by security key holder)
  * transaction signer keys 7 and 8 are added (manual signing operation by security key holder)

* month 4 of operation
  * transaction signer keys 7 and 8 are used 
  * transaction signer keys 5 and 6 are removed (manual signing operation by security key holder)
  * transaction signer keys 9 and 10 are added (manual signing operation by security key holder)

* continue loop

Those rotations also help to keep the security keys in use, so high level executives can be assured the security keys are tested once per month.
