```
TR: 005
Title: Network fees and native network tokens
Author: Mike Gaertner <gaertner.mike@sabay.com>
Status: Active
Created: 2019-10-01
Updated: 2020-10-23
Version 1.0.0
```

Network fees and fee payments
=============================

To prevent ledger spamming and to be able to maintain the efficiency of the network, SSN requires small transaction fees and minimum balances on accounts.

## Account funding

Any account wishing to transact on SSN needs to hold a native token balance sufficient to pay for the operation. Accounts also need to hold a balance for data storage used for trustline and data fields attached to the account.

* When opening a merchant account via SSN dashboard, SSN will pay for all operations needed to setup the account and seed the account with.
* When opening a payment service provider account (PSP) on SSN, the SSN support team will fund the account with 100 NT to allow the payment provider to setup the account.

Native token used to conduct operations on SSN can be bought and sold by anyone account the network. SSN is offering a fully automated token exchange for payment service providers.

## Cost per operation

SSN transactions can contain anywhere from 1 to a defined limit of 100 operations. The fee for a given transaction is equal to the number of operations the transaction contains multiplied by the base fee for a given ledger.

```
Transaction fee = # of operations * base fee
```

***The base fee for 1 (one) operation is 1 (one) native token***, regardless of the type or value of the operation. 

SSN deducts the entire fee from the transaction’s source account, regardless of which accounts are involved in each operation or who signed the transaction. The fee must always be paid in full for the transaction to be accepted on the network. Accounts with insufficient funds cannot make transactions.

## Native Token exchange rate

The Exchange rate for native tokens (NT) to KHR and to USD is published by the **SSN Exchange Rate Publisher** GA4HLSMVABJTJE75RQT6JDTFQ4SWKQHNQZEWI5K6V6XL4JKYV7FUO7EP

The Account is publishing 2 trades:

* 1 native token to KHR
* 1 native token to USD

this is the official rate at which SSN will sell native token via the SSN token trading account to any accepted PSP.

```bash
curl https://api.ssn.digital/accounts/GBWDQ3I5DAKB3LOYKT4KOBZMBISQOJR5FAQWYYSIKXQ3ECI3C53IGAKQ/offers
```

```txt
Offers made by SSN Exchange Rate Publisher | GA4HLSMVABJTJE75RQT6JDTFQ4SWKQHNQZEWI5K6V6XL4JKYV7FUO7EP

Selling: NT issued by SSN
Buying: KHR issued by SSN Exchange Rate Publisher
Amount to sell: 1.0000000
Exchange rate: 1 NT for 100.0000000 KHR

Selling: NT issued by SSN
Buying: USD issued by SSN Exchange Rate Publisher
Amount to sell: 1.0000000
Exchange rate: 1 NT for 0.0245098 USD
```

The exchange rate is adjusted for 1 NT to USD with the prevailing exchange rate as set by the [Nation Bank of Cambodia](https://www.nbc.org.kh/english/economic_research/exchange_rate.php)

## Minimum Account Balance

All SSN accounts must maintain a minimum balance of native tokens. The minimum balance is calculated using the base reserve, which is currently set at 1 NT:

```
Minimum Balance = (2 + # of entries) * base reserve
```

The absolute minimum balance for an account is 1 NT, which is equal to (2 + 0 entries) * 0.5 base reserve. Each additional entry reserves an additional 1 NT. Entries include:

* Trustlines
* Offers
* Signers
* Data entries

Any transaction that would reduce an account’s balance to less than the minimum will be rejected with an ```INSUFFICIENT_BALANCE``` error. Likewise, NT selling liabilities that would reduce an account’s balance to less than the minimum plus NT selling liabilities will be rejected with an ```INSUFFICIENT_BALANCE``` error.


### Changes to Operation Fees and Minimum Balances

Ledger limits, the base reserve, and the minimum base fee can change, but should not do so more than once every year. For the most part, you can think of them as fixed values. 


## Buying native tokens

SSN is operating a trading account for native tokens. This trading account offers a token swap for payment service providers (PSP) tokens to native tokens. Payment providers need to accept a trustline from the native token trading account, so the trading account can hold the PSPs token. The network address of the trading account is:

**Name:** [SSN native token trading account](https://explorer.ssn.digital/v1/accounts/production/GBWDQ3I5DAKB3LOYKT4KOBZMBISQOJR5FAQWYYSIKXQ3ECI3C53IGAKQ)

**Address:**  `GBWDQ3I5DAKB3LOYKT4KOBZMBISQOJR5FAQWYYSIKXQ3ECI3C53IGAKQ` 


Once the trust has been established, the trading account will open a trading pair for the PSP to purchase native tokens using the PSP own token. Tokens send to the trading account, will be processed by Sabay Digital to be redeemed for FIAT once per month.

The offer will be calculated as:

``` <exchange rate publisher, rate for token (USD/KHR)> / <PSP published net_payout rate> ```

A sell offer of 100,000 native tokens will be made for each assets connected to the trading account. The PSP must publish a net_payout rate in order for an offer to be made. If a offer does not exists, please contact the support team as noted in the trading accounts settings.

Any account holding a asset with a trust line to the trading account can then issue a buy offer for native tokens. The SSN trading exchange will automatically match the offer and make the trade.

Given the following example ```net_payout``` rates and exchange rates on SSN: 

| Provider | Net Payout Rate
| --- | --- |
| PSP 1 | 0.9975
| PSP 2 | 0.9500

Exchange rates:

| From | To
| --- | --:
| 1 USD | 4080 KHR
| 1 NT | 100 KHR
| 1 NT | 0.0245098 USD

PSP Tokens issued:

| Provider | Token
| --- | --- |
| PSP 1 | KHR
| PSP 2 | USD
| PSP 2 | KHR

The following trading pairs would be offered on SSN

| Trade | asset |  amount  |  | asset | amount |
| --- | --- | --: | --- | --- | --: |
| Sell | NT | 1 | buy | PSP 1 KHR token | 100.2506265 |
| Sell | NT | 1 | buy | PSP 2 KHR token | 105.2631578 |
| Sell | NT | 1 | buy | PSP 2 USD token |   0.0257998 |

The rates will be adjusted for KHR to USD exchange rate as needed, based on the price for KHR/USD published by the National Bank of Cambodia. SSN does not offer trades to buy back native tokens, however holders of the native tokens on the network can trade the native token freely between accounts.

## Discount API

In order to support micro transactions, SSN has implemented a discount program via the transaction builder API provided to all users via the SSN 3rd party API. When using the API SSN will be the source account to pay the fee for the transaction, and the API will build a transaction containing:

* the payment operation as requested by the caller
* the network fee payment by the API SSN account
* a payment of the discounted rate from the callers SSN account to the API SSN Account


When using the API to build a transaction for a operation with USD or KHR tokens, the API will apply the following rates:

```
 0.20 % of the amount in the operation up to a maximum of 100 KHR per operation
```

example calculations

| Amount | KHR | USD | Fee in NT | in KHR |
| --- | --: | --: | --: | --: |
| less then or equal |  4000 |  1.00 | 0.08 |   8 
| less then or equal |  8000 |  2.00 | 0.16 |  16 
| less then or equal | 12000 |  3.00 | 0.24 |  24 
| less then or equal | 16000 |  4.00 | 0.32 |  32 
| less then or equal | 20000 |  5.00 | 0.40 |  40 
| less then or equal | 24000 |  6.00 | 0.48 |  48 
| less then or equal | 28000 |  7.00 | 0.56 |  56 
| less then or equal | 32000 |  8.00 | 0.64 |  64 
| less then or equal | 36000 |  9.00 | 0.72 |  72 
| less then or equal | 40000 | 10.00 | 0.80 |  80 
| less then or equal | 44000 | 11.00 | 0.88 |  88 
| less then or equal | 48000 | 12.00 | 0.96 |  96 
| less then or equal | 50000 | 12.50 | 1.00 | 100 
| great then         | 50000 | 12.50 | 1.00 | 100 


The discount only applies to operations with the asset code KHR or USD, any other asset code will be charge the standard fee.

Organizations who want to use SSN to facility non value based transactions can apply for being included in the discount program. 

***Native tokens should never be accepted by merchants as payment for service.***
